# PRIMITIVE TYPES AND NON-PRIMITIVE DATA TYPES

## _Introduction_
Every Variable has a data type that tells what kind of data is being stored in a variable. There are two types of data types in JavaScript.

`Primitive data types`: The predefined data types are known as primitive data types. Primitive data types are also known as in-built data types.

- `String` : Sequence of characters that are surrounded by single or double quotes.
- `Number` : Decimal values as well as values without decimals.
- `Bigint` : Numbers greater than 253-1 which helps to perform operations on large numbers.
- `Undefined` : The meaning of undefined is ‘value is not assigned’.
- `Boolean` : The boolean data type can accept only two values i.e. true and false.
- `Null` : This data type can hold only one possible value that is null.
- `Symbol` : This data type is used to create objects which will always be unique.

`Non-primitive data types`: The data types that are derived from primitive data types of the JavaScript language are known as non-primitive data types. It is also known as derived data types or reference data types.

- `Object` : An object in Javascript is an entity having properties and methods. Everything is an object in javascript.
- `Array` : It stores multiple values and elements in one variable.


| Primitive | Non Primitive |
| ------ | ------ |
| Primitive Data types are predefined. | Non-Primitive data types are created by the programmer. |
| Primitive Data types will have certain values. | Non-Primitive data types can be NULL. |
| Size depends on the type of data structure. | Size is not fixed. |
| Examples are numbers and strings. | Examples are Array and Linked List. |
| It can start with a lowercase. | It can start with uppercase. |

