# JAVASCRIPT ENGINE

## _Introduction_
A scripting language is a programming language that is used to manipulate, customize, and automate the facilities of an existing system. Scripting languages are usually interpreted at runtime rather than compiled.

JavaScript is a scripting language and is not directly understood by computer but the browsers have inbuilt JavaScript engine. Which help them to understand and interpret JavaScript codes. These engines help to convert our JavaScript program into computer-understandable language. A JavaScript engine is a computer program that executes JavaScript code and converts it into computer understandable language

## _List of Javascript Engines_
 | Browsers | Engines |
| ------ | ------ |
| Google Chrome | V8 |
| Edge (Internet Explorer) | Chakra |
| Mozilla Firefox | Spider Monkey |
| Safari | Javascript Core Webkit |

V8 provides an edge as it allows JavaScript to run much faster, which improves user’s experience of the web, the way for the development of web applications, and rapid growth of server-side JavaScript through projects like Node.js.

## _V8 Engine_

JavaScript is a multi-paradigm prototype-based language, which uses JavaScript Engine such as Chrome’s V8 engine Firefox SpiderMonkey engine and etc. They convert the high level code into machine-readable code which lets computer to perform some specific tasks. We will understand this using an image.


Firstly, raw JavaScript file goes into the Parser. 
 - `Parser` : It checks for syntax and semantics. Parser is nothing but a lexical analysis that results into the breaking of code into tokens in order to understand their meanings and these tokens gets converted into Abstract Syntax Tree(AST).
 - `AST (Abstract Syntax tree)` : It is a hierarchical tree like structure of program representation which allows interpreter to understand the program. This AST is initially goes to the Interpreter.
 - `Interpreter` : It lets the AST to get converted into Byte code. In V8 engine, this process is known as Ignition but when some code gets repeated again and again.
 - `Profiler` : It will check for the repeating code that can be optimized. As soon as, it gets the repeating code, it basically moves the code into compiler.
 - `Compiler` : It spits out the most optimized byte code. It will produce the optimized byte-code which gets replaced with the slower byte code produced by the Interpreter. 
 
 In V8 Engine, This compiler is called as TurboFan.
